A graph $G = (V,E)$ is a pair of sets, where $V$ is the set of vertices and $E$ is the set of edges holding pairs of vertices $(v_i, v_j)$. The order of the pairs, ordered or unordered, are determined by the category of graph.

# Overview
There are two general categories of graphs: directed and undirected graphs. As intuition suggests, directed graphs have edges with direction while undirected graphs have edges without.

A common type of graph that's discussed is simple graphs. For simple graphs, they are denoted by the characteristics that they are undirected, have no self-loops, have no weights, and have no parallel edges.

For a given edge $e$ with two vertices $v_i, v_j$, we say that the vertices connected by the edge are neighbors and the edge is incident to both vertices.

The degree of a vertex is the number of edges incident to the given vertex.

# Graph Proofs & Techniques
1) Handshake Lemma
2) Pigeonhole Principle
3) Contradiction
4) Induction

## Handshake Lemma
Let $G = (V, E)$ be an undirected graph. Then:

$\sum_{v \in V}^{}deg(v) = 2|E|$

*Proof.* (Combinatorial Argument). We count the number of pairs $(v,e)$ where $v \in V$, $e \in E$, and $e$ is incident to $v$.

Method 1 (LHS): Each vertex in the graph contributes $deg(v)$. The sum of the degrees for all the vertices is then $\sum_{v \in V}^{} deg(v)$. 

Method 2 (RHS): Each edge contributes 2 pairs $(v,e)$. Therefore, the total number of pairs is $2|E|$. Thus, $\sum_{v \in V}^{} deg(v) = 2|E|. \quad \square$  

From the formula, we can conclude corollaries. The sum of degrees of the vertices is even and the number of vertices with an odd degree is even.

## Pigeonhole Principle (Applied to Graphs)
Let $G = (V, E)$ be a simple graph with $n \geq 2$ vertices. Then, there must be at least two vertices with the same degree. 

*Proof.* We prove by cases. Let $G = (V,E)$ be a simple graph with $n \geq 2$ vertices. Then we have the following cases:

Case 1 - Vertex with degree 0: If we have a vertex with degree 0, then there must be no vertex with degree $n-1$, as for a vertex to have degree $n-1$ it would need to be neighbors with every other vertex, which is not possible in this case. Thus, the range of possible degrees can be stated as $0,1,...,n-2$. By the Pigeonhole Principle, there must be at least two vertices with the same degree ($n$ pigeons, the vertices, need to fit in to $n-1$ pigeonholes, the possible degrees).

Case 2 - No vertex with degree 0:  If we have no vertex with degree 0, then the range of possible degrees would be $1, 2,...,n-1$. By the Pigeonhole Principle, there must be at least two vertices with the same degree.

Thus, for a simple graph with $n \geq 2$ vertices, there must be at least two vertices with the same degree.$\quad \square$

## Induction
Induction is a helpful proof technique for graph proofs. We usually induct over the number of vertices or the number of edges.

### Template (for Vertices)
1) Let $P(n)$ be the statement "all graphs with $n$ vertices have this property." We prove $P(n)$ for all $n \in N$ by induction.
2) Base Case: Prove $P(1)$, i.e. that the single vertex graph has the property.
3) Inductive Hypothesis: Assume that $P(k)$ holds for an arbitrary integer $k \geq 1$. All graphs with $k$ vertices have this property.
4) Inductive Step: Prove $P(k+1)$. Take an arbitrary graph with $k+1$ vertices, remove a vertex, then prove $P(k)$ and $P(k+1)$.
5) Conclusion: Therefore, $P(n)$ holds for all integers $n \geq 1$ by induction. $\quad \square$ 
