## Measures of Center
**Mean**
- Population mean: $\mu = (1/N) \sum{x_i}$ 
- Sample mean: $\bar{x} = (1/n) \sum{x_i}$

**Median**
- Midpoint of the distribution.
- $(n+1)/2$

The median is considered a more **resistant** measure of center than the mean.
## Measures of Spread
- Range: The difference between the largest and smallest value in a data set.
- Pth percentile: The value such that P% of the data set is at or below the value.
- Quartiles: Splits the data set into quarters.
	- IQR: The difference between the third and first quartiles. 

The IQR is considered a more **resistant** measure of spread than the range.

- Variance
	- Population variance: $\sigma^2 = (1/N) \sum{(x_i - \mu)^2}$ 
	- Sample variance: $s^2 = (1/n+1) \sum{(x_i - \bar{x})^2}$
- Standard deviation
	- Population standard deviation: $\sigma = \sqrt{(1/N) \sum{(x_i - \mu)^2}}$ 
	- Sample standard deviation: $s = \sqrt{(1/n+1) \sum{(x_i - \bar{x})^2}}$ 

**Linear Transformation**
- A linear transformation changes a variable $x$ to $x_{new}$ according to the following equation:
	- $x_{new} = a + bx$

**Standardizing**
- Standardizing can be done to put variables on the same scale, allowing us to gain perspective on how a variable compares to others.

## Measures of Relationship
**Covariance**
- A measure of linear relationship between two variables.
- Determines direction, but does not determine the strength of the relationship between the variables.

- Population covariance:
	- $\sigma_{xy} = \frac{\sum{(x_i - \mu_x)(y_i - \mu_y)}}{N}$
- Sample covariance:
	- $s_{xy} = \frac{\sum{(x_i - \bar{x})(y_i - \bar{y})}}{n-1}$

**Correlation Coefficient**
- Covariance divided by the product of the standard deviations.
- A measure of both of the direction and strength of the relationship between variables.
- Ranges from 1 to -1, with 1 meaning that the data set lives on a positive linear line and -1 meaning that the data set lives on a negative linear line.

- Population correlation coefficient:
	- $\rho_{xy} = \frac{Cov(x,y)}{\sigma_x * \sigma_y}$
- Sample correlation coefficient: 
	- $r_{xy} = \frac{Cov(x,y)}{s_x * s_y}$

**Types of Relationships - Association and Causation**
- Association between two variables $x$ and $y$ can be explained in different ways:
	- Causation: A change in the variable $x$ causes the change in the variable $y$.
	- Common response: The association between two variables $x$ and $y$ are explained by a lurking variable $z$. 
	- Confounding: The effects of two variables on another cannot be distinguished.
		- Ex: Whether years of experience or just their ability is causing an impact on an individual's income.

