## Introduction to Probability
- Random phenomenon: The process through which two or more outcomes are generated.
- Basic outcomes: The outcomes generated by a random phenomenon.
- Sample space: The space formed from basic outcomes.
- Event: A subset of the sample space.

**Types of Event Operations**
- Union
- Intersection
- Complement

**Event Properties**
- Disjoint (mutually exclusive)
- Collectively exhaustive
- Independent

**Probability Rules**  
Probability refers to the proportion of some outcome or event over a long series of repetitions.

To find less basic probabilities we can apply probability rules:
- Addition rule for disjoint events
	- $P(A \cup B) = P(A) + P(B)$
- Complement rule
	- $P(A^c) = 1 - P(A)$
- Multiplication rule for independent events
	- $P(A \cap B) = P(A)*P(B)$

**Binomial Coefficients**  
Binomial coefficients allow us to find probabilities for scenarios in which there a number of ways to arrange successes among observations. The equation for binomial coefficients is as follows:
- $C^n_x = \frac{n!}{x!(n-x)!}$

## Conditional Probabilities
**Generalized Probability Rules**
- Addition rule
	- $P(A \cup B) = P(A) + (B) - P(A \cap B)$
- Multiplication rule
	- $P(A \cap B) = P(A)P(B | A)$

**Definitions**
- Independence
	- $P(A|B) = P(A)$
- Conditional probability
	- $P(A|B) = \frac{P(A \cap B)}{P(B)}$

**Bivariate Probabilities**
- Sets of events that are mutually exclusive and collectively exhaustive when considered individually that have intersections when considered jointly are bivariate. Probabilities from these intersections are bivariate probabilities.


