A proof is a valid argument for the truth of a mathematical statement. There are numerous techniques that can be utilized to establish arguments for truth. 

# Direct Proof
The direct proof strategy is used to prove an implication. The template for writing direct proofs is as follows:
1) Introduce variables
2) Make assumptions
3) Explain assumptions and what they mean, "unrolling" definitions
4) Apply algebra, logic, reasoning to reach a conclusion
5) "Reroll" definitions upon reaching the conclusion
6) Conclude the proof

# Proof by Cases
The proof by cases strategy involves breaking an assumption into cases and proving each case. 

# Proof by Contrapositive
The proof by contrapositive is another strategy used for proving implications. It involves proving the statement $\neg q \rightarrow \neg p$ instead of $p \rightarrow q$ when it is easier to work with the assumption $\neg q$ than $p$. 

# Proof of a Biconditional
For proving a biconditional statement, such as $p \leftrightarrow q$, we prove an implication in each direction, i.e. $p \rightarrow q$ and $q \rightarrow p$.

To prove multiple biconditional statements, such as $p \leftrightarrow q \leftrightarrow r$, we can form and prove a chain of implications. 

# Proof by Contradiction
The proof by contradiction strategy proves a claim $p$ by showing that $\neg p$ does not hold. The steps are as follows:
1) Assume for the sake of contradiction that $\neg p$
2) Then...
3) And...
4) This is a contradiction. So, $p$ must hold.