Intelligence can be thought of approximately as problem solving. That is to say, the tasks that make up how we think of intelligence can be boiled down generally to mapping some problem to a solution through a set of actions. 

From this, we discuss search, a core mechanism in problem solving.

# Agents and Environment
Agents and environments are fundamental components of AI systems. Hence, they're also involved in search.

- Agents: Anything that obtains information about the world and makes use of it
- Environment: The world in which the agent lives

# Problem Formulation
Before we can work to solve some given problem, we have to define it concretely first. We do so through a state space graph. The graph is composed of the following:
- Node: Abstract world configurations
- Arcs: The set of actions
- Starting state
- Goal test

# Process
The general process for search can defined as follows:
- Utilize a fringe to store nodes to check; initially defined with the starting state
- Check and expand routine - check whether the current node is the goal state, if not expand to find the successors of the current node

# Uninformed Search
We introduce 4 different algorithms for performing uninformed search, search in which we examine states with no additional information.
1) Breadth-First Search
2) Depth-First Search
3) Depth-Limited DFS
4) Iterative Deepening

## Breadth-First Search
Search in which the order prioritized for going through the tree is breadth. 

- Nodes are searched level by level
- Uses a FIFO data structure, a queue

*BFS with path tracking*
```python

```
## Depth-First Search
Search in which the order prioritized for going through the tree is depth.

- Nodes are searched branch by branch
- Uses a LIFO data structure, a stack

*DFS with path tracking*
```python

```

## Iterative Deepening